README.md, before:


[![Travis build status shield](https://img.shields.io/travis/cozy/cozy-data-connect.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/cozy/cozy-data-connect)
[![Github Release version shield](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/cozy/cozy-data-connect.svg)](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-data-connect/releases)
[![NPM Licence shield](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/cozy-data-connect.svg)](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-data-connect/blob/master/LICENSE)


[Cozy] Data Connect
===================


What's Cozy?
------------

![Cozy Logo](https://cdn.rawgit.com/cozy/cozy-guidelines/master/templates/cozy_logo_small.svg)

[Cozy] is a platform that brings all your web services in the same private space. With it, your webapps and your devices can share data easily, providing you with a new experience. You can install Cozy on your own hardware where no one's tracking you.


What is Data Connect (previously known as MyAccounts, previously known as Konnectors)?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A cozy client application to configure and run cozy konnectors

Hack
----

_:pushpin: Note:_ we recommend to use [Yarn] instead of NPM for package management. Don't hesitate to [install][install-yarn] and use it for your Cozy projects, it's now our main node packages tool for Cozy official apps.

### Install and run in dev mode

Hacking the Data Connect app requires you to [setup a dev environment][setup].

You can then clone the app repository and install dependencies:

```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/cozy/cozy-data-connect.git
$ cd cozy-data-connect
$ yarn install
```

:pushpin: If you use a node environment wrapper like [nvm] or [ndenv], don't forget to set your local node version before doing a `yarn install`.

#### Note about Cozy-ui

[Cozy-ui] is our frontend stack library that provides common styles and components accross the whole Cozy's apps. You can use it for you own application to follow the official Cozy's guidelines and styles. If you need to develop / hack cozy-ui, it's sometimes more useful to develop on it through another app. You can do it by cloning cozy-ui locally and link it to yarn local index:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/cozy/cozy-ui.git
cd cozy-ui
yarn link
```

then go back to your app project and replace the distributed cozy-ui module with the linked one:

```sh
cd cozy-data-connect
yarn link cozy-ui
```

You can now run the watch task and your project will hot-reload each times a cozy-ui source file is touched.

## Models

The Cozy datastore stores documents, which can be seen as JSON objects. A `doctype` is simply a declaration of the fields in a given JSON object, to store similar objects in an homogeneous fashion.

Cozy ships a [built-in list of `doctypes`][doctypes] for representation of most of the common documents (Bills, Contacts, Events, ...).

Whenever your app needs to use a given `doctype`, you should:

- Check if this is a standard `doctype` defined in Cozy itself. If this is the case, you should add a model declaration in your app containing at least the fields listed in the [main fields list for this `doctype`][doctypes]. Note that you can extend the Cozy-provided `doctype` with your own customs fields. This is typically what is done in [Konnectors] for the [Bill `doctype`][bill-doctype].
- If no standards `doctypes` fit your needs, you should define your own `doctype` in your app. In this case, you do not have to put any field you want in your model, but you should crosscheck other cozy apps to try to homogeneize the names of your fields, so that your `doctype` data could be reused by other apps. This is typically the case for the [Konnector `doctype`][konnector-doctype] in [Konnectors].


### Resources

All documentation is located in the `/docs` app directory. It provides an exhaustive documentation about workflows (installation, development, pull-requests…), architecture, code consistency, data structures, dependencies, and more.

Feel free to read it and fix / update it if needed, all comments and feedback to improve it are welcome!


### Open a Pull-Request

If you want to work on Data Connect and submit code modifications, feel free to open pull-requests! See the [contributing guide][contribute] for more information about how to properly open pull-requests.


Community
---------

### Localization

Localization and translations are handled by [Transifex][tx], which is used by all Cozy's apps.

As a _translator_, you can login to [Transifex][tx-signin] (using your Github account) and claim an access to the [app repository][tx-app]. Locales are pulled when app is build before publishing.

As a _developer_, you must [configure the transifex client][tx-client], and claim an access as _maintainer_ is the [app repository][tx-app]. Then please **only update** the source locale file (usually `en.json` in client and/or server parts), and push it to Transifex repository using the `tx push -s` command.


### Maintainer

The lead maintainer for Cozy Data Connect is ?, send him/her a :beers: to say hello!


### Get in touch

You can reach the Cozy Community by:

- Chatting with us on IRC [#cozycloud on Freenode][freenode]
- Posting on our [Forum][forum]
- Posting issues on the [Github repos][github]
- Say Hi! on [Twitter][twitter]


License
-------

Cozy Data Connect is developed by Cozy Cloud and distributed under the [AGPL v3 license][agpl-3.0].



[cozy]: https://cozy.io "Cozy Cloud"
[setup]: https://dev.cozy.io/#set-up-the-development-environment "Cozy dev docs: Set up the Development Environment"
[yarn]: https://yarnpkg.com/
[yarn-install]: https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install
[cozy-ui]: https://github.com/cozy/cozy-ui
[doctypes]: https://dev.cozy.io/#main-document-types
[bill-doctype]: https://github.com/cozy-labs/konnectors/blob/master/server/models/bill.coffee
[konnector-doctype]: https://github.com/cozy-labs/konnectors/blob/master/server/models/konnector.coffee
[konnectors]: https://github.com/cozy-labs/konnectors
[agpl-3.0]: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html
[contribute]: CONTRIBUTING.md
[tx]: https://www.transifex.com/cozy/
[tx-signin]: https://www.transifex.com/signin/
[tx-app]: https://www.transifex.com/cozy/cozy-data-connect/dashboard/
[tx-client]: http://docs.transifex.com/client/
[freenode]: http://webchat.freenode.net/?randomnick=1&channels=%23cozycloud&uio=d4
[forum]: https://forum.cozy.io/
[github]: https://github.com/cozy/
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/mycozycloud
[nvm]: https://github.com/creationix/nvm
[ndenv]: https://github.com/riywo/ndenv

Commit message:

publish: Merge pull request #60 from gregorylegarec/feat/rename-to-collect
generated from commit bbe318fbbec6612e8fb8f1849130c6b1e483ed98

README.md, after:


[![Travis build status shield](https://img.shields.io/travis/cozy/cozy-collect.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/cozy/cozy-collect)
[![Github Release version shield](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/cozy/cozy-collect.svg)](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-collect/releases)
[![NPM Licence shield](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/cozy-collect.svg)](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-collect/blob/master/LICENSE)


[Cozy] Collect
===================


What's Cozy?
------------

![Cozy Logo](https://cdn.rawgit.com/cozy/cozy-guidelines/master/templates/cozy_logo_small.svg)

[Cozy] is a platform that brings all your web services in the same private space. With it, your webapps and your devices can share data easily, providing you with a new experience. You can install Cozy on your own hardware where no one's tracking you.


What is Collect (previously known as MyAccounts, previously known as Konnectors)?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A cozy client application to configure and run cozy konnectors

Hack
----

_:pushpin: Note:_ we recommend to use [Yarn] instead of NPM for package management. Don't hesitate to [install][install-yarn] and use it for your Cozy projects, it's now our main node packages tool for Cozy official apps.

### Install and run in dev mode

Hacking the Collect app requires you to [setup a dev environment][setup].

You can then clone the app repository and install dependencies:

```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/cozy/cozy-collect.git
$ cd cozy-collect
$ yarn install
```

:pushpin: If you use a node environment wrapper like [nvm] or [ndenv], don't forget to set your local node version before doing a `yarn install`.

#### Note about Cozy-ui

[Cozy-ui] is our frontend stack library that provides common styles and components accross the whole Cozy's apps. You can use it for you own application to follow the official Cozy's guidelines and styles. If you need to develop / hack cozy-ui, it's sometimes more useful to develop on it through another app. You can do it by cloning cozy-ui locally and link it to yarn local index:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/cozy/cozy-ui.git
cd cozy-ui
yarn link
```

then go back to your app project and replace the distributed cozy-ui module with the linked one:

```sh
cd cozy-collect
yarn link cozy-ui
```

You can now run the watch task and your project will hot-reload each times a cozy-ui source file is touched.

## Models

The Cozy datastore stores documents, which can be seen as JSON objects. A `doctype` is simply a declaration of the fields in a given JSON object, to store similar objects in an homogeneous fashion.

Cozy ships a [built-in list of `doctypes`][doctypes] for representation of most of the common documents (Bills, Contacts, Events, ...).

Whenever your app needs to use a given `doctype`, you should:

- Check if this is a standard `doctype` defined in Cozy itself. If this is the case, you should add a model declaration in your app containing at least the fields listed in the [main fields list for this `doctype`][doctypes]. Note that you can extend the Cozy-provided `doctype` with your own customs fields. This is typically what is done in [Konnectors] for the [Bill `doctype`][bill-doctype].
- If no standards `doctypes` fit your needs, you should define your own `doctype` in your app. In this case, you do not have to put any field you want in your model, but you should crosscheck other cozy apps to try to homogeneize the names of your fields, so that your `doctype` data could be reused by other apps. This is typically the case for the [Konnector `doctype`][konnector-doctype] in [Konnectors].


### Resources

All documentation is located in the `/docs` app directory. It provides an exhaustive documentation about workflows (installation, development, pull-requests…), architecture, code consistency, data structures, dependencies, and more.

Feel free to read it and fix / update it if needed, all comments and feedback to improve it are welcome!


### Open a Pull-Request

If you want to work on Collect and submit code modifications, feel free to open pull-requests! See the [contributing guide][contribute] for more information about how to properly open pull-requests.


Community
---------

### Localization

Localization and translations are handled by [Transifex][tx], which is used by all Cozy's apps.

As a _translator_, you can login to [Transifex][tx-signin] (using your Github account) and claim an access to the [app repository][tx-app]. Locales are pulled when app is build before publishing.

As a _developer_, you must [configure the transifex client][tx-client], and claim an access as _maintainer_ is the [app repository][tx-app]. Then please **only update** the source locale file (usually `en.json` in client and/or server parts), and push it to Transifex repository using the `tx push -s` command.


### Maintainer

The lead maintainer for Cozy Collect is ?, send him/her a :beers: to say hello!


### Get in touch

You can reach the Cozy Community by:

- Chatting with us on IRC [#cozycloud on Freenode][freenode]
- Posting on our [Forum][forum]
- Posting issues on the [Github repos][github]
- Say Hi! on [Twitter][twitter]


License
-------

Cozy Collect is developed by Cozy Cloud and distributed under the [AGPL v3 license][agpl-3.0].



[cozy]: https://cozy.io "Cozy Cloud"
[setup]: https://dev.cozy.io/#set-up-the-development-environment "Cozy dev docs: Set up the Development Environment"
[yarn]: https://yarnpkg.com/
[yarn-install]: https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install
[cozy-ui]: https://github.com/cozy/cozy-ui
[doctypes]: https://dev.cozy.io/#main-document-types
[bill-doctype]: https://github.com/cozy-labs/konnectors/blob/master/server/models/bill.coffee
[konnector-doctype]: https://github.com/cozy-labs/konnectors/blob/master/server/models/konnector.coffee
[konnectors]: https://github.com/cozy-labs/konnectors
[agpl-3.0]: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html
[contribute]: CONTRIBUTING.md
[tx]: https://www.transifex.com/cozy/
[tx-signin]: https://www.transifex.com/signin/
[tx-app]: https://www.transifex.com/cozy/cozy-collect/dashboard/
[tx-client]: http://docs.transifex.com/client/
[freenode]: http://webchat.freenode.net/?randomnick=1&channels=%23cozycloud&uio=d4
[forum]: https://forum.cozy.io/
[github]: https://github.com/cozy/
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/mycozycloud
[nvm]: https://github.com/creationix/nvm
[ndenv]: https://github.com/riywo/ndenv
